Hi, everyone.
In this lecture, we are going to set up our stars and also create the random sine function.
All right, now, before diving into the random sound function, what I want to do is I want to create
our stars now.
All of our stars are going to be present inside an array.
So I'm going to say stars and I'm going to initialize it to two.
I'm going to declare it as an empty array.
Right.
And now let's grab our star speed.
Now, what are we going to do is I'm going to create our star speed because our stars speed is actually
a fraction of the screen per screen width per second.
So I'm just going to add in another so that stars speed.
So its speed times.
Window or canvas canvas element?
I'm just going to set it to width because canvas with that with is actually window dot in there with
it doesn't matter which when you do, both of them are equal to each other.
So this is going to give us the speed.
Now we need we need to kind of velocities.
We need a horizontal velocity and we need a vertical velocity.
Right now.
If you come here to our maths, maths is fun.
We can see that there is a speed and velocity.
So what is speed?
What is velocity?
Now, if you say a car is moving like at a speed of like 60 miles per hour.
Now, that is how fast the car is moving.
And that is called a speed that is called the speed of the car.
But if you say that the car is moving at 60 miles per hour in the north direction, if you give it direction,
then that then that is no longer speed.
That is velocity of the car.
The velocity of the car is 60 miles per hour in the north direction, or indeed like in the left direction,
right direction, south direction.
Whenever you provided a magnitude, then that is if you provide a a direction that then that is going
to become a velocity.
So we have to kind of units in physics, one is scalar and the other one is vector, so scale a scalar,
I think it's called scalar.
I'm used to using these names in Persian in my own language.
So it's a bit difficult for me to, like, pinpoint the name.
But, you know, like my university helps a lot because I studied my university in English.
So I'm comfortable with saying this is scalar is something that only has a a magnitude, it has a an
amount.
But vector is something that has an amount and has a direction.
So velocity is vector.
It means that it has a direction.
So whenever I say horizontal velocity, it's no longer speed because speed is neither horizontal nor
vertical.
Speed is just speed.
It doesn't have a direction.
Wind speed has some direction.
Then it is going to become a velocity.
So I'm going to say horizontal horizontal velocity.
Now you know what velocity is, right?
And there is your reference.
You can go over this entire thing.
There are a lot of examples.
You can just go ahead and read all about that.
There is even a cool picture there as well.
So this horizontal velocity is going to be our star speed now we say we know that the speed which has
a direction, so we are going to multiply it by a direction.
So what is the direction?
This is where our random sine function comes in.
So random sine and I'm going to tell you why a random sight and because we want to change the amount
because some stars are moving fast.
OK, some stars, they're moving faster than the others.
We want to randomize this velocity as well.
So random.
And that's it.
So why random sine the random sine is just going to give us a negative or a positive.
And if it is positive, it means that the star is moving from right to left.
If it is negative, it means that moving from the right.
Sorry, yeah, if this if it is positive, it moves that, if it means that I'm sorry, let me reiterate
this.
If the random sign gives us a positive sign, then it means that the star is moving from left to right.
If the random sine function gives us a negative, a negative sign, then it means that the star is moving
from right to left, right.
So basically this guy is just going to give us a sign.
That's why it's called Random Sign.
So to get a random sign for stuff, let's create that function.
OK, and we do we called this random site and this function is going to return a return math dot random.
And what do we want to do so if this math, we don't the random returns zero to zero point nine, if
if what it returns is greater or equal to zero point five, then the sign is going to be positive.
Or if it is less than zero point five, the sign is going to be negative.
So this is a ternary operator.
We have done this right.
So basically we are we have set up our stars and we have created the random sine function.
And what we are going to do next is we are going to now we know what the horizontal velocity is in the
next lecture, we are going to we are going to specify our vertical velocity using the Pythagoras's
theorem.
And this is one of the places where your mathematical skills, they are put into practical use cases.
And and for most of us in Afghanistan, we always thought, OK, like mathematics, why do I even need
that?
But this is like a practical example of the Pythagoras's theorem that we are going to use in this project.
That's why I created this.
That's why I love this project, because it's it's all about mathematics.
And of course, I'm in love with that as well.
And also, we are going to create we know how we can create loops if we want to randomize the location
of something or randomize the size of something, ring a bell.
Right.
We did that.
And we are going to do both of those things in our next lecture.
So see you guys then.